# solar-power-output-predictor
Jack McGinley, jmcginle@stevens.edu

Ishbat Mahmud, imahmud@stevens.edu

Our program uses weather data provided by the National Solar Radiation Database (nsrdb) to create predictions of the power generated by a solar panel module. The main.ipynb executable file allows the user to enter their own parameters for their solar panel module or use default values, and will generate a configured csv file of the nrsdb datset from 2024, a graph plotting the true monthly average power output using the weather data from the configured nsrdb, and a csv file containing the predicted power output from our machine learning model and the true calculated power output. Our program uses pandas and matplotlib to configure and plot the data to a csv and png file respectively. The predicted power output is found using a pytorch regression model, and uses the GHI metric from the nrsdb dataset to predict the power output. 

To execute the program, clone the git repository to a directory. Ensure all files are present, as well as the nsrdb_2024.csv file. You can run the program by calling the main.ipynb module. In the main.ipynb module change the file_path variable to the appropriate file path on your system to the nrsdb csv file. You will also need to ensure all appropriate libraries are installed.

Contributions

Jack - data configuration, plotting and analysis, main executable file, raise_input module, pytest.

Ishbat- SolarPowerModel, training the model (train_model), run_model
